<param ve-config title="Wilkie Collins" author="Alyson" layout="vtl" banner="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/5/5b/Wilkie_Collins.jpg">
#Make 'em cry, make 'em laugh, make 'em wait

It’s been a tough year producing story after story with increasingly complicated plotlines, brilliantly illuminated characters and those all important sensations of fear, excitement and suspense. Everywhere you go you are recognised as a celebrity, the public stop you in the street for inside information about the latest cliff-hanger and clamour after each and every word you say as well as write, but you feel the pressures of success and the encroachment of age. Gout brings a constant discomfort and pain, laudanum becomes your trusty friend and companion during the dark times. But there is another way to relieve your mind and embrace your unorthodox lifestyle. A trip to the seaside town you visited as a boy, the place in which your mother declared that you “behaved nobly in the sea”[1], frolicking at the water’s edge with your siblings and indulging your passion for sailing.
But who shall accompany you on your visit? Your constant companion and probable lover, keeper of your books and devoted mother to a brilliant daughter, both of whom respect your wish to avoid polite society, the prohibitive restrictions of formal dress and humour your bohemian ways? Or your young lover, mother to your own children but also strong, courageous, independent and highly attractive?
<param ve-image url="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/2/21/Charles_Allston_Collins_%281828-1873%29_-_Wilkie_Collins_-_676_-_Fitzwilliam_Museum.jpg/191px-Charles_Allston_Collins_%281828-1873%29_-_Wilkie_Collins_-_676_-_Fitzwilliam_Museum.jpg">

For the best-selling author, playwright and father of detective fiction, Wilkie Collins (1824-1889), there was no choice to make-take them both. Ramsgate became his frequent escape from the demands and bustle of the London Metropolis; the sea air improved his health and inspired his creativity. He spent his time fishing, walking and sailing, writing instalments of his latest work in between his leisure pursuits and time spent with his friends and families. As Peter Ackroyd acknowledges,
“Ramsgate had entered his imagination. He could wander to the harbour and hire a boat, or he could walk among the crowd of holidaymakers and admire with them the glittering sea”.[2]
<param ve-entity eid="Q736439" marker-symbol="anchor" title="Ramsgate"> 
<param ve-map center="Q736439" zoom="9" basemap="Stamen_Watercolor">

Using the alias ‘William Dawson’ to stay with his children and their mother, Martha Rudd at Wellington Crescent and staying under his own name with his life-long companion Caroline Graves in <span data-click-image-zoomto=150,26,300,533>Nelson Crescent </span>, just the other side of the bay, Collins led a scandalous double-life, married to neither woman and refusing to conform to the expectations of polite Victorian society. Outwardly, Collins had created respectable personas which allowed him to continue his relationships under the noses of his unsuspecting landlords, though there is evidence that many of his acquaintances, including his close friend Charles Dickens, were well aware of his situation. 
<param ve-image iiif url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ash16ma/Wilkie-Collins/master/Images/Nelson Crescent.jpg"label="Nelson Crescent" fit="84,-49,348,617">

Ramsgate appears as a setting in a number of his stories, including Poor Miss Finch (1872), The Law and the Lady (1875) and The Fallen Leaves (1879)[3] and nearby Broadstairs is often credited as the inspiration behind his most famous novel, The Woman in White. Legend has it that Collins had great difficulty in finding a title for the novel and in desperation walked for hours on the cliffs between the Fort House and Kingsgate. Exhausted, he threw himself on the grass admonishing the lighthouse: ‘you are ugly and stiff and awkward; you know you are: as stiff and as weird as my white woman. White woman!-woman in white! The title, by Jove’”[4]
Today, the houses he stayed at are marked by obligatory blue plaques which give no hint of his non-conformist ways and the great genius that inspired them.
<param ve-entity eid="Q736439" marker-symbol="anchor" title="Ramsgate"> 
<param ve-entity eid="Q922739" marker-symbol="lightbulb-on" title="Broadstairs">
<param ve-map center="Q736439" zoom="12">
